feat(python): Add the 3.x migration guide (#11327)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/migration/2.x-to-3.x.mdx

---
title: Migrate from 2.x to 3.x
sidebar_order: 8997
description: "Learn about migrating from sentry-python 2.x to 3.x"
---

This guide describes the common patterns involved in migrating to version `3.x` of the `sentry-python` SDK. For the full list of changes, check out the [detailed migration guide in the repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/blob/potel-base/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md).

## Python Version Support

Sentry Python SDK `3.x` only supports Python 3.7 and higher. If you're on an older Python version, you'll need to stay on an older version of the SDK:

- Python 2.7-3.5: SDK `1.x`
- Python 3.6: SDK `2.x`

## Configuration

> The default of the `traces_sample_rate` option was changed from `None` to `0`. This means that even if you don't provide a custom `traces_sample_rate`, the SDK will, at minimum, at least continue incoming traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default of the `traces_sample_rate` option was changed from `None` to `0`. This means that even if you don't provide a custom `traces_sample_rate`, the SDK will, at minimum, continue incoming traces.
```
@sentrivana - what does this mean more specifically? Does "continue incoming traces" mean that the SDK will still acknowledge traces, but save no data? I would read `0` as nothing is being sampled.

Author: Will reword to make this clearer 👀

Author: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/11327/commits/3ed11af4bd09d69843a04acf53f8eaeddbbca7f2 (and a typo fix in https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/11327/commits/57f14b82265cacf12e3063899aaac5ab54331961)

The meaning of `0` here is a bit confusing as soon as distributed tracing comes in. Without distributed tracing, `0` just means "don't sample". But in a distributed tracing scenario, we'll always follow the incoming sampling decision so that we don't have broken traces -- the `traces_sample_rate` is basically ignored if there's an incoming trace.

Author: Removed the section altogether since we rolled the change back.

The `enable_tracing` option was removed. Use [`traces_sample_rate`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#traces_sample_rate) directly, or configure a [`traces_sampler`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#traces_sampler) for more fine-grained control over which spans should be sampled.

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
-     enable_tracing=True,
+     traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)
```

The deprecated `propagate_traces` option was removed. Use [`trace_propagation_targets`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#trace_propagation_targets) instead.

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
      # don't propagate trace info downstream
-     propagate_traces=False,
+     trace_propagation_targets=[],
)
```

> Note that this only affects the global SDK option. The `propagate_traces` option of the Celery integration remains unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This impacts all SDK integrations, except Celery. The `propagate_traces` option of the Celery integration remains unchanged.
```

Author: `propagate_traces` also affects custom/manual instrumentation in addition to integrations, so I think I'd prefer to stay with the original wording here -- also, Celery is the only integration that has a `propagate_traces` option, and with the proposed change it could be misunderstood that it's an integration-level option of all integrations.

> The `profiles_sample_rate` and `profiler_mode` options previously accessible via `_experiments` have been removed. They're superceded by top-level options of the same name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `profiles_sample_rate` and `profiler_mode` options previously nested under `_experiments` have been removed. They're replaced by top-level options of the same name:
```

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
-     _experiments={
-         "profiles_sample_rate": 1.0,
-         "profiler_mode": "thread",
-     },
+     profiles_sample_rate=1.0,
+     profiler_mode="thread",
)
```

## Tracing API

> Tracing in the Sentry Python SDK `3.x` is powered by OpenTelemetry in the background, which also means we're moving away from the Sentry-specific concept of transactions. `sentry_sdk.start_transaction()` is now deprecated in favor of `sentry_sdk.start_span()`.

Reviewer: "we're moving away from the Sentry-specific concept of transactions." - Does this mean that we're moving _toward_ some other concept of transactions? Otel's?

Author: Will add a sentence or two to elaborate, but yes, we're essentially moving towards a span-only world.

Author: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/11327/commits/72c2daea17216f1f26fbde210e2dc3fadb6baae5

```python diff
- with sentry_sdk.start_transaction():
+ with sentry_sdk.start_span():
      ...
```

Any spans without a parent span will become transactions by default. If you want to avoid promoting a span without a parent to a transaction, you can pass the `only_if_parent=True` keyword argument to `sentry_sdk.start_span()`.

`sentry_sdk.start_transaction()` and `sentry_sdk.start_span()` no longer take the following arguments: `trace_id`, `baggage`, `span_id`, `parent_span_id`. Use `sentry_sdk.continue_trace()` for propagating trace data.

`sentry_sdk.continue_trace()` no longer returns a `Transaction` and is now a context manager. To continue a trace from headers or environment variables, start a new span inside `sentry_sdk.continue_trace()`:

```python diff
- transaction = sentry_sdk.continue_trace({...})
- with sentry_sdk.start_transaction(transaction=transaction):
-     ...
+ with sentry_sdk.continue_trace({...}):
+     with sentry_sdk.start_span():
+         ...
```

The functions `continue_from_headers`, `continue_from_environ` and `from_traceparent` have been removed. Use the `sentry_sdk.continue_trace()` context manager instead.

## Span Data

> In OpenTelemetry, there is no concept of separate categories of data on a span: everything is simply a span attribute. This is a world the Sentry SDK is moving towards as well. We deprecated `set_data()` and added a new span method called `set_attribute()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenTelemetry, there is no concept of separate categories of data on a span: everything is simply a span attribute. This is a concept the Sentry SDK is also adopting. We deprecated `set_data()` and added a new span method called `set_attribute()`:
```

Note that since the SDK is now exclusively using span attributes, this restriction applies to other ways of setting data on a span as well like `span.set_data()`, `span.set_measurement()`, `span.set_context()`.

</Alert>

## Sampling

It's no longer possible to change the sampling decision of a span by setting `span.sampled` directly after the span has been created. Use either a custom `traces_sampler` (preferred) or the `sampled` argument to `start_span()` for determining whether a span should be sampled.

```python
with sentry_sdk.start_span(sampled=True) as span:
    ...
```

<Alert title="Sampling non-root spans" level="warning">

Both `traces_sampler` and the `sampled` argument will only influence whether root spans (transactions) are sampled. They can't be used for sampling child spans.

</Alert>

> The `sampling_context` argument of `traces_sampler` and `profiles_sampler` has changed considerably for spans coming from our auto-instrumented integrations. As a consequence of using OpenTelemetry under the hood, spans can only carry specific, simple types of data, preventing us from making custom objects, like for example the `Request` object for several web frameworks, accessible on the span. See the [migration guide in the repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/blob/potel-base/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md) for details on what data is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sampling_context` argument of `traces_sampler` and `profiles_sampler` has changed considerably for spans coming from our auto-instrumented integrations. As a consequence of using OpenTelemetry under the hood, spans can only carry specific, simple types of data. This prevents us from making custom objects, for example, the `Request` object for several web frameworks, accessible on the span. See the [migration guide in the repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-python/blob/potel-base/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md) for details on what data is available.
```

The ability to set `custom_sampling_context` on `start_transaction` was removed. If there is custom data that you want to have accessible in the `sampling_context` of a `traces_sampler` or `profiles_sampler`, set it on the span via the `attributes` argument, as all span attributes are now included in the `sampling_context` by default:

```python diff
- with start_transaction(custom_sampling_context={"custom_attribute": "custom_value"}):
+ with start_span(attributes={"custom_attribute": "custom_value"}) as span:
      # custom_attribute will now be accessible in the sampling context
      # of your traces_sampler/profiles_sampler
      ...
```

<Alert title="Span attribute type restrictions" level="warning">

As mentioned above, span attribute keys must be non-empty strings and values can only be several primitive types (excluding `None`) or a list of a single primitive type. See [the OpenTelemetry specification](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/common/#attribute) for details.

</Alert>

## Errors

> We've updated how we handle `ExceptionGroup`s. You will now get more data if `ExceptionGroup`s appear in chained exceptions. As an indirect consequence, you might notice a change in how issues are grouped in Sentry.

Reviewer: I don't think we reference `ExceptionGroup`s in our documentation today. Is this something you want added into our Python docs, @sentrivana ?

## Integrations

Additional integrations will now be activated automatically if the SDK detects the respective package is installed: Ariadne, ARQ, asyncpg, Chalice, clickhouse-driver, GQL, Graphene, huey, Loguru, PyMongo, Quart, Starlite, Strawberry. You can [opt-out of specific integrations with the `disabled_integrations` option](/platforms/python/integrations/#disabling-integrations).

We no longer support Django older than 2.0, trytond older than 5.0, and Falcon older than 3.0.

### Logging

> The logging integration which implements out-of-the-box support for the Python standard library `logging` framework doesn't capture error logs as events anymore by default. The original behavior can still be achieved by providing a custom `event_level` to the `LoggingIntegration`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logging integration, which implements out-of-the-box support for the Python standard library `logging` framework, doesn't capture error logs as events anymore by default. The original behavior can still be achieved by providing a custom `event_level` to the `LoggingIntegration`:
```

## Python Version Support

Sentry Python SDK `3.x` only supports Python 3.7 and higher. If you're on an older Python version, you'll need to stay on an older version of the SDK:

- Python 2.7-3.5: SDK `1.x`
- Python 3.6: SDK `2.x`

## Configuration

The `enable_tracing` option was removed. Use [`traces_sample_rate`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#traces_sample_rate) directly, or configure a [`traces_sampler`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#traces_sampler) for more fine-grained control over which spans should be sampled.

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
-     enable_tracing=True,
+     traces_sample_rate=1.0,
  )
```

The deprecated `propagate_traces` option was removed. Use [`trace_propagation_targets`](/platforms/python/configuration/options/#trace_propagation_targets) instead.

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
      # don't propagate trace info downstream
-     propagate_traces=False,
+     trace_propagation_targets=[],
  )
```

> Note that this only affects the global SDK option. The `propagate_traces` option of the Celery integration remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this only affects the global SDK option. The [`propagate_traces`](/platforms/python/integrations/celery/#options) option of the Celery integration remains unchanged.
```

The `profiles_sample_rate` and `profiler_mode` options previously nested under `_experiments` have been removed. They're replaced by top-level options of the same name:

```python diff
  sentry_sdk.init(
-     _experiments={
-         "profiles_sample_rate": 1.0,
-         "profiler_mode": "thread",
-     },
+     profiles_sample_rate=1.0,
+     profiler_mode="thread",
  )
```

## API Changes

> `add_attachment()` is now a part of the top-level level API and can be imported and used directly from `sentry_sdk`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`add_attachment()` is now a part of the top-level level API and should be imported and used directly from `sentry_sdk`.
```

Note that since the SDK is now exclusively using span attributes, this restriction applies to other ways of setting data on a span as well like `span.set_data()`, `span.set_measurement()`, `span.set_context()`.

</Alert>

## Sampling

It's no longer possible to change the sampling decision of a span by setting `span.sampled` directly after the span has been created. Use either a custom `traces_sampler` (preferred) or the `sampled` argument to `start_span()` for determining whether a span should be sampled.

```python
with sentry_sdk.start_span(sampled=True) as span:
    ...
```

<Alert title="Sampling non-root spans" level="warning">

Both `traces_sampler` and the `sampled` argument will only influence whether root spans (transactions) are sampled. They can't be used for sampling child spans.

</Alert>

> The `sampling_context` argument of `traces_sampler` and `profiles_sampler` has changed considerably for spans coming from our auto-instrumented integrations. As a consequence of using OpenTelemetry under the hood, spans can only carry specific, simple types of data. This prevents us from making custom objects, for example, the `Request` object for several web frameworks, accessible on the span.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `sampling_context` argument of `traces_sampler` and `profiles_sampler` has changed considerably for spans coming from our auto-instrumented integrations. As a consequence of using OpenTelemetry under the hood, spans can only carry specific, primitive types of data. This prevents us from making custom objects, for example, the `Request` object for several web frameworks, accessible on the span.
```
